pr-templates/better-auth-integration.md, before:

## Changelog

- Integrated Better Auth authentication framework
  - Added Better Auth configuration file (`better-auth.config.ts`)
    - Configured Prisma as database provider
    - Enabled email/password authentication
    - Added Google OAuth provider support
    - Added Facebook OAuth provider support
    - Added TikTok OAuth provider support
  - Created API route for authentication (`/api/auth/[...betterauth]/route.ts`)
    - Set up catch-all route to handle all Better Auth endpoints
    - Configured for both GET and POST requests
  - Updated login page (`/app/login/page.tsx`)
    - Added email/password authentication with Better Auth
    - Integrated Google OAuth sign-in button
    - Integrated Facebook OAuth sign-in button
    - Integrated TikTok OAuth sign-in button
    - Refactored OAuth handling to support multiple providers
    - Added proper error handling and loading states
    - Included link to registration page
  - Updated registration page (`/app/register/page.tsx`)
    - Added email/password registration with Better Auth
    - Integrated Google OAuth sign-up button
    - Integrated Facebook OAuth sign-up button
    - Integrated TikTok OAuth sign-up button
    - Refactored OAuth handling to support multiple providers
    - Added password field with validation
    - Maintained phone input functionality
    - Added proper error handling and loading states
    - Included link to login page
  - Updated navigation layout (`/app/layout.tsx`)
    - Added login and register buttons to header
    - Removed authentication state management (simplified for now)
- Implemented CUID for user identification
  - Updated Prisma schema (`prisma/schema.prisma`)
    - Changed User.id from Int to String with @default(cuid())
    - Provides collision-resistant unique identifiers
    - Enhances security and privacy for users
  - Created database migration for CUID implementation
    - Applied migration: `20250724011559_add_cuid_user_ids`
    - Updated existing database schema
- Enhanced User model for OAuth support
  - Updated Prisma schema (`prisma/schema.prisma`)
    - Added OAuth provider fields: `oauthProvider`, `oauthProviderId`
    - Added OAuth token fields: `oauthAccessToken`, `oauthRefreshToken`, `oauthExpiresAt`
    - Made `passwordHash` optional for OAuth users
    - Added database indexes for OAuth provider lookups
    - Enhanced `profilePhotoUrl` to support OAuth profile photos
  - Created database migration for OAuth fields
    - Applied migration: `20250724011658_add_oauth_fields_to_user`
    - Updated existing database schema
- Updated dependencies
  - Added `better-auth` package
  - Added `cuid` package for unique ID generation

---

## Testing Instructions

1. Pull this branch.
2. Run `npm install` to install Better Auth and CUID dependencies.
3. Set up environment variables in `.env.local`:
   ```
   DATABASE_URL=your_database_url
   GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your_google_client_id
   GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=your_google_client_secret
   FACEBOOK_CLIENT_ID=your_facebook_client_id
   FACEBOOK_CLIENT_SECRET=your_facebook_client_secret
   TIKTOK_CLIENT_ID=your_tiktok_client_id
   TIKTOK_CLIENT_SECRET=your_tiktok_client_secret
   ```
4. Start the application with `npm run dev`.
5. Navigate to `/register` and test:
   - Email/password registration (should create user in database with CUID)
   - Google OAuth registration (should redirect to Google and create user with OAuth fields)
   - Facebook OAuth registration (should redirect to Facebook and create user with OAuth fields)
   - TikTok OAuth registration (should redirect to TikTok and create user with OAuth fields)
   - Form validation and error handling
6. Navigate to `/login` and test:
   - Email/password login (should authenticate user)
   - Google OAuth login (should redirect to Google)
   - Facebook OAuth login (should redirect to Facebook)
   - TikTok OAuth login (should redirect to TikTok)
   - Error handling for invalid credentials
7. Verify navigation buttons work correctly.
8. Test that registration redirects to profile page on success.
9. Check that Better Auth API endpoints respond correctly at `/api/auth/[...betterauth]`.
10. Verify that new users are created with CUID-based IDs (not sequential numbers).
11. Test OAuth user creation by checking database for OAuth provider fields.

**Note:** All OAuth providers (Google, Facebook, and TikTok) require valid credentials from their respective developer consoles to work properly.

Commit message:

Refactor Better Auth configuration and integrate user registration flow. Updated configuration to match Better Auth v1.3.3 API, added session management, and improved OAuth provider setup. Replaced direct API calls in registration with a dedicated function for better error handling and user feedback. Enhanced Prisma schema to support organization and team management features.
Signed-off-by: AlexMacD6 <alex.macdonald@rigconcierge.com>

pr-templates/better-auth-integration.md, after:

## Changelog

- Integrated Better Auth authentication framework
  - Added Better Auth configuration file (`better-auth.config.ts`)
    - Configured Prisma as database provider
    - Enabled email/password authentication
    - Added Google OAuth provider support
    - Added Facebook OAuth provider support
    - Added TikTok OAuth provider support
    - Updated configuration structure to match Better Auth v1.3.3 API
    - Removed `defineConfig` import (not available in v1.3.3)
    - Added required `appName` and `secret` configuration
    - Fixed property name from `emailPassword` to `emailAndPassword`
    - Added session configuration with proper expiration settings
    - Temporarily switched to memory adapter for testing (resolves database adapter initialization issues)
  - Created API route for authentication (`/api/auth/[...betterauth]/route.ts`)
    - Set up catch-all route to handle all Better Auth endpoints
    - Configured for both GET and POST requests
    - Fixed import paths to use correct Better Auth API exports
    - Updated to use `betterAuth` function with proper handler export
  - Updated login page (`/app/login/page.tsx`)
    - Added email/password authentication with Better Auth
    - Integrated Google OAuth sign-in button
    - Integrated Facebook OAuth sign-in button
    - Integrated TikTok OAuth sign-in button
    - Refactored OAuth handling to support multiple providers
    - Added proper error handling and loading states
    - Included link to registration page
  - Updated registration page (`/app/register/page.tsx`)
    - Added email/password registration with Better Auth
    - Integrated Google OAuth sign-up button
    - Integrated Facebook OAuth sign-up button
    - Integrated TikTok OAuth sign-up button
    - Refactored OAuth handling to support multiple providers
    - Added password field with validation
    - Maintained phone input functionality
    - Added proper error handling and loading states
    - Included link to login page
  - Updated navigation layout (`/app/layout.tsx`)
    - Added login and register buttons to header
    - Removed authentication state management (simplified for now)
- Implemented CUID for user identification
  - Updated Prisma schema (`prisma/schema.prisma`)
    - Changed User.id from Int to String with @default(cuid())
    - Provides collision-resistant unique identifiers
    - Enhances security and privacy for users
  - Created database migration for CUID implementation
    - Applied migration: `20250724011559_add_cuid_user_ids`
    - Updated existing database schema
- Enhanced User model for OAuth support
  - Updated Prisma schema (`prisma/schema.prisma`)
    - Added OAuth provider fields: `oauthProvider`, `oauthProviderId`
    - Added OAuth token fields: `oauthAccessToken`, `oauthRefreshToken`, `oauthExpiresAt`
    - Made `passwordHash` optional for OAuth users
    - Added database indexes for OAuth provider lookups
    - Enhanced `profilePhotoUrl` to support OAuth profile photos
  - Created database migration for OAuth fields
    - Applied migration: `20250724011658_add_oauth_fields_to_user`
    - Updated existing database schema
- Fixed Better Auth integration issues
  - Resolved module import errors for `better-auth/next`
  - Updated API route to use correct Better Auth v1.3.3 API
  - Fixed configuration structure to match current Better Auth version
  - Removed `defineConfig` import (not available in v1.3.3)
  - Added required configuration fields (`appName`, `secret`, session config)
  - Fixed property names to match Better Auth v1.3.3 API
  - Resolved database adapter initialization failures by using memory adapter
  - Added `@better-auth/utils` dependency for proper functionality
- Updated dependencies
  - Added `better-auth` package (v1.3.3)
  - Added `cuid` package for unique ID generation
  - Added `@better-auth/utils` package for Better Auth utilities

---

## Testing Instructions

1. Pull this branch.
2. Run `npm install` to install Better Auth and CUID dependencies.
3. Set up environment variables in `.env.local`:
   ```
   DATABASE_URL=your_database_url
   BETTER_AUTH_SECRET=your_secret_key_here
   GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=your_google_client_id
   GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=your_google_client_secret
   FACEBOOK_CLIENT_ID=your_facebook_client_id
   FACEBOOK_CLIENT_SECRET=your_facebook_client_secret
   TIKTOK_CLIENT_ID=your_tiktok_client_id
   TIKTOK_CLIENT_SECRET=your_tiktok_client_secret
   ```
4. Start the application with `npm run dev`.
5. Navigate to `/register` and test:
   - Email/password registration (should create user in memory with CUID)
   - Google OAuth registration (should redirect to Google and create user with OAuth fields)
   - Facebook OAuth registration (should redirect to Facebook and create user with OAuth fields)
   - TikTok OAuth registration (should redirect to TikTok and create user with OAuth fields)
   - Form validation and error handling
6. Navigate to `/login` and test:
   - Email/password login (should authenticate user)
   - Google OAuth login (should redirect to Google)
   - Facebook OAuth login (should redirect to Facebook)
   - TikTok OAuth login (should redirect to TikTok)
   - Error handling for invalid credentials
7. Verify navigation buttons work correctly.
8. Test that registration redirects to profile page on success.
9. Check that Better Auth API endpoints respond correctly at `/api/auth/[...betterauth]`.
10. Verify that new users are created with CUID-based IDs (not sequential numbers).
11. Test OAuth user creation by checking memory storage for OAuth provider fields.

**Note:** 
- All OAuth providers (Google, Facebook, and TikTok) require valid credentials from their respective developer consoles to work properly.
- Currently using memory adapter for testing. Users will be lost on server restart. For production, configure proper database adapter.
